Role-Playing Games (RPGs), like Dungeons & Dragons [1](1.md), have been defined since the early 1970’s with the rise of fantasy war games. It is a game in which the players assume the roles of fictional characters, they collaborate and they create stories. The different players determine the actions of their own character based upon their character’s specifications and dice rolls. These actions can either succeed or fail depending on the game’s system of rules and guidelines. The choices the players make during the game will shape the direction and the outcome of the game. Fundamentally, RPGs are interactive and collaborative storytelling. In pen-and-paper RPG players use their speech to perform actions, have their characters on paper, and make physical dice rolls. The problem is that most of the work is taken care of by one particular player called the Game Master (GM). The GM organizes and arbitrates the game. The GM defines the stories, controls the non-player aspects of the game (such as the non-playable characters), creates environments and solves any player conflicts. To be able to do all these things, the GM has to track everything that is going on during the game with pen and paper. This is where the idea of the Interactive Combat Encounter Tool (ICE-T) comes from. This project focuses on ICE-T; ICE-T is an application whose purpose is to make RPGs easier to play than with pen and paper only. This system will focus on one aspect of RPGs which is the combat. This part of the game has many rules and guidelines the players have to follow and the GM has to enforce. ICE-T will be used by only the GM. Chiefly, ICE-T is designed to make the GM’s life easier and to allow him to focus on other aspects of the game; instead of merely enforcing the rules of combat. The reason this fills a need is because most of the already available RPG softwares target mobile devices. This is not really convenient since it exacerbates the problem of information coordination by adding another device to distract the GM. Furthermore, the remaining tools that exist use the .net framework, which only target the Windows platforms. ICE-T will be Java based, multi-platform, and focuses entirely on running a combat encounter. To conclude, ICE-T will help GMs run a better game by automating and contextualizing the most cumbersome aspects of combat. Further ICE-T beats the competition by being multi-platform and including unique features all in one box. Finally, ICE-T will make a GMs game better by ensuring that there is more time for story, choice and consequence; instead of rules and combat.